entity: An entity is anything that exists or has existed or will exist. Examples: Julius Caesar; the Second World War; your body mass index; Verdi's Requiem.
continuant: A continuant is an entity that persists, endures, or continues to exist through time while maintaining its identity. Examples: A human being; a tennis ball; a cave; a region of space; someone's temperature.
occurrent: An occurrent is an entity that unfolds itself in time or it is the start or end of such an entity or it is a temporal or spatiotemporal region. Examples: As for process, history, process boundary, spatiotemporal region, zero-dimensional temporal region, one-dimensional temporal region, temporal interval, temporal instant..
independent continuant: b is an independent continuant =Def b is a continuant & there is no c such that b specifically depends on c or b generically depends on c. Examples: An atom; a molecule; an organism; a heart; a chair; the bottom right portion of a human torso; a leg; the interior of your mouth; a spatial region; an orchestra.
spatial region: A spatial region is a continuant entity that is a continuant part of the spatial projection of a portion of spacetime at a given time. Examples: As for zero-dimensional spatial region, one-dimensional spatial region, two-dimensional spatial region, three-dimensional spatial region.
temporal region: A temporal region is an occurrent over which processes can unfold. Examples: As for zero-dimensional temporal region and one-dimensional temporal region.
spatiotemporal region: A spatiotemporal region is an occurrent that is an occurrent part of spacetime. Examples: The spatiotemporal region occupied by the development of a cancer tumour; the spatiotemporal region occupied by an orbiting satellite.
process: p is a process means p is an occurrent that has some temporal proper part and for some time t, p has some material entity as participant. Examples: An act of selling; the life of an organism; a process of sleeping; a process of cell-division; a beating of the heart; a process of meiosis; the taxiing of an aircraft; the programming of a computer.
quality: A quality is a specifically dependent continuant that, in contrast to roles and dispositions, does not require any further process in order to be realized. Examples: The colour of a tomato; the ambient temperature of this portion of air; the length of the circumference of your waist; the shape of your nose; the shape of your nostril; the mass of this piece of gold.
specifically dependent continuant: b is a specifically dependent continuant =Def b is a continuant & there is some independent continuant c which is not a spatial region & which is such that b specifically depends on c. Examples: (with multiple bearers) John's love for Mary; the ownership relation between John and this statue; the relation of authority between John and his subordinates. Another example: (with one bearer) The mass of this tomato; the pink colour of a medium rare piece of grilled filet mignon at its centre; the smell of this portion of mozzarella; the disposition of this fish to decay; the role of being a doctor; the function of this heart to pump blood; the shape of this hole.
fiat object part: A fiat object part b is a material entity & such that if b exists then it is continuant part of some object c & demarcated from the remainder of c by one or more fiat surfaces. Examples: The upper and lower lobes of the left lung; the dorsal and ventral surfaces of the body; the Western hemisphere of the Earth; the FMA:regional parts of an intact human body.
object aggregate: An object aggregate is a material entity consisting exactly of a plurality (≥1) of objects as member parts which together form a unit. Examples: The aggregate of the musicians in a symphony orchestra and their instruments; the aggregate of bearings in a constant velocity axle joint; the nitrogen atoms in the atmosphere; a collection of cells in a blood biobank.
site: A site is a three-dimensional immaterial entity whose boundaries either (partially or wholly) coincide with the boundaries of one or more material entities or have locations determined in relation to some material entity. Examples: A hole in a portion of cheese; a rabbit hole; the Grand Canyon; the Piazza San Marco; the kangaroo-joey-containing hole of a kangaroo pouch; your left nostril (a fiat part - the opening - of your left nasal cavity); the lumen of your gut; the hold of a ship; the interior of the trunk of your car; hole in an engineered floor joist.
object: An object is a material entity which manifests causal unity & is of a type instances of which are maximal relative to the sort of causal unity manifested. Examples: An organism; a fish tank; a planet; a laptop; a valve; a block of marble; an ice cube.
generically dependent continuant: A generically dependent continuant is an entity that exists in virtue of the fact that there is at least one of what may be multiple copies which is the content or the pattern that multiple copies would share. Examples: The pdf file on your laptop; the pdf file that is a copy thereof on my laptop; the sequence of this protein molecule; the sequence that is a copy thereof in that protein molecule; the content that is shared by a string of dots and dashes written on a page and the transmitted Morse code signal; the content of a sentence; an engineering blueprint.
process boundary: p is a process boundary =Def p is a temporal part of a process & p has no proper temporal parts. Examples: The boundary between the 2nd and 3rd year of your life.
one-dimensional temporal region: A one-dimensional temporal region is a temporal region that is a whole that has a temporal interval and zero or more temporal intervals and temporal instants as parts. Examples: The temporal region during which a process occurs.
material entity: A material entity is an independent continuant has some portion of matter as continuant part. Examples: A human being; the undetached arm of a human being; an aggregate of human beings.
continuant fiat boundary: A continuant fiat boundary b is an immaterial entity that is of zero, one or two dimensions & such that there is no time t when b has a spatial region as continuant part & whose location is determined in relation to some material entity. Examples: As for fiat point, fiat line, fiat surface.
immaterial entity: b is an immaterial entity =Def b is an independent continuant which is such that there is no time t when it has a material entity as continuant part. Examples: As for fiat point, fiat line, fiat surface, site.
relational quality: b is a relational quality =Def b is a quality & there exists c and d such that c and d are not identical & b specifically depends on c & b specifically depends on d Examples: A marriage bond; an instance of love; an obligation between one person and another.
fiat surface: A fiat surface is a two-dimensional continuant fiat boundary that is self-connected Examples: The surface of the Earth; the plane separating the smoking from the non-smoking zone in a restaurant.