Geological Object: A rigid entity that provides its own identity criteria and holds a unity criteria. A Geological Object is generated by at least one Geological Process. Examples: a crystal, a nodule, a sedimentary layer, a metamorphic geobody, a tectonic plate.
Earth Material: Earth Material is a natural amount of matter, solid, fluid or unconsolidated, generated by a Geological Process. Earth Material is rigid and provides its own identity, but holds no unity criteria. Example: the solid material of which a petroleum reservoir is constituted and the fluids present in its pores.
Rock: Rock is a solid consolidate Earth Material, made of polycrystalline, monocrystalline or amorphous mineral matter or material of biological origin. Rock is defined at a scale of observation that is such that it can be considered homogeneous even when it is constituted by an aggregate of particles. Examples of instances: the limestone that constitutes a sedimentary layer, the sandstone that constitutes a thin section.
Earth Fluid: An Earth Material that represents a volume of fluid. Earth Fluids can be water, oil, gas or a mixture of those. Example: petroleum oil and gas.
Geological Boundary: A Geological Boundary is a Continuant Fiat-Boundary corresponding to a physical discontinuity of any nature, located on the external surface of a Geological Object. Examples: twinning plane in a crystal, top or bottom boundaries of a layer, outer boundary of a batholith.
Geological Structure: Geological Structure is a Generically Dependent Continuant which describes the internal arrangement of a Geological Object, i.e., the configuration and the mutual relationships of its different parts. Examples: fold, fault, cross-stratification, flute cast, delta structure.
Geological Contact: Geological Contact is a Relational Quality which relates two Geological Objects having the same dimension (1D, 2D or 3D), whose external boundaries are adjacent to each other. Examples: contact between two crystals, or between two sedimentary layers, between the hanging wall and foot wall of a fault.
Geological Process: It is a physical, chemical or biological process or series of processes that generate, destroy or modify the shape, the composition or the arrangement of at least one Geological Object. Examples: sedimentation, erosion, folding, diagenesis, petroleum migration.
Geological Time Interval: Geological Time Interval is a Temporal Region of finite or zero dimension within the Global Geological Time. A Geological Time Interval may be occupied by one or several Geological Processes. Examples: period of -57 to -57 million years, the Oxfordian period.
Geological Age: Geological Age is a Quality of Geological Object related to a Geological Time Interval during which some Geological Process operated. The age of a Geological Object is the age of the process that generated this object. Examples: -57 million years, Oxfordian.