Sedimentary Geological Object: A Geological Object constituted by some Sedimentary Rock or Sediment.
Depositional Unit: A Sedimentary Geological Object recognizable in a mapping scale of at least 1:1000 m.
Channel Unit: An elongated Depositional Unit having some Channel Surface as its boundary and constituted by some Sediment or Sedimentary Rock that fills it.
Lobe Unit: A Depositional Unit having some Lobe Geometry.
Levee Unit: A Depositional Unit having Wedge Geometry and forming a bank or ridge geomorphology associated with some Channel Unit.
Mound Unit: A Depositional Unit having Mound Geometry with an irregular top surface and internal chaotic facies.
Overbank Unit: A Depositional Unit found at some overbank area, which is geomorphologically associated with some Channel Unit or Levee Unit.
Sedimentary Rock: A Rock constituted by some collection of sedimentary grains or particles.
Sediment: An Unconsolidated Earth Material constituted by some collection of sedimentary grains or particles.
Depositional System: An Object Aggregate whose members are mereotopologically linked Depositional Units.
Channel Surface: A Geological Boundary that forms the basis of a Channel Unit, having a concave-up shape unless truncated by overlying depositional units.
Dimension: A Quality that inheres in an Independent Continuant by virtue of one of its one-dimensional extents. It is a category that includes at least the three dimensions defined in this ontology: Width, Length, and Thickness. All dimensions are expressed by a real number indicating its value and a literal string indicating its measurement unit.
Length: A Dimension that inheres in an Independent Continuant by virtue of the distance between its two extremes along its longest side.
Thickness: A Dimension that inheres in an Independent Continuant by virtue of the distance between its two extremes perpendicularly to its width and length.
Geometry: A Quality that inheres in a Depositional Unit by virtue of its external three-dimensional shape. It does not reflect the exact mathematical specifications of a geometric shape but abstracts and simplifies these specifications
Geometry Value: An enumeration of the possible values for Geometry instances.
Channel Geometry: A synonym for Geometry with “channel” value.
Lobe Geometry: A synonym for Geometry with “lobe” value.
Mound Geometry: A synonym for Geometry with “mound” value.
Wedge Geometry: A synonym for Geometry with “wedge” value.
Sinuosity: A Quality that inheres in a Channel Unit by virtue of how wavy it is across its length. It is expressed by a real number given by its curved length divided by its length in a straight line.
Facies: A visual pattern of properties of Geological Objects.
Sedimentary Facies: A Facies consisting of the sum of the sedimentological characteristics of Depositional Units.
Facies Association: A Generically Dependent Continuant that consists of a collective of Facies.
Sedimentary Structure: A Geological Structure consisting of a pattern of the internal arrangement of Depositional Units.